# Final project documentation

N-spiritual persona
Noémie Carrier
Leonardo Morales Vega
December 2023

n-spiritual persona is a character creator/ personality test that aims to celebrate the plurality of gender identity as it is performed online, trough videogames and networked spaces. The user can customize a 3D character along a spectrum of gender dimensions, imbuing it with personality traits that expand, empower and even destabilize --to gain a greater understanding of their conception of their own identity and performed gender online, and in real life.

More concretely, the user will be asked to answer questions about their preference in certain situations, like in the personality test [Find Out Your Type Of Peeps](https://event.designexpo.org.tw/en/). The character creator will generate a radar chart and an avatar based on the results as an inspiration, that the person can modify afterwards. The art style focuses on a plurality of body shapes, invites the user to add limbs, play with different colors, and move 3D objects around. At the end of the experimentation, the user can save the avatar in a public or private gallery, and/or export it to 3D print.

Note: abobe link to the Taiwan Exhibition elemental personality test seems to be broken. [Here's a reddit thread that lists all the results](https://www.reddit.com/r/mbti/comments/16zitd6/taiwan_design_exhibition_2023_innate_personality/) 

## Technical description
------------------
### Php
Php is an open-source server scripting language used to do interactive web pages. It allows server-side scripting, and allow interactions with databases. We use it embedded within our JavaScript to manage the user's input to the form, and to display a gallery of answers from the database.  

### Three.js
Three.js is a open-source JavaScript library that uses WebGL to render 3D graphics in web browsers. It enables interactions with web page elements, animations, and game development using JavaScript. We use it for the character creator for the display of 3D objects that allows for interesting interactions. We also chose to work with 3D for the user to be able to download the character that could be used in other online contexts or 3D printed. 

### Blender
Three.js also allowed us to use Blender to develop the shapes. It is a pretty advanced open-source software that is accessible to new users and powerful enough to be used by professionals.  Blender can be used to create 3D assets and carry information like size, position, color and texture variants easily to the web.

### The API for Spider Chart
- A detailed description of the different technologies used and how they work, why they were relevant etc...

## Features
The current website allows for user's input in a form, a "personality test". It is intended to be funny and light, and to change depending on your mood of the day. These answers are then displayed on the page along with the answers of different users. For this part to be completed, we would've love to display a limited quantity of those, and to display the most recent one first, bigger than the others. The data from the form is intended to be displayed as a spider chart and used to generate a fist iteration of the character from the character creator. 

The character creator itself displays all the 3D assets as a character, and the user can play with the sliders and buttons to iterate trough the variants of heads, torsos and hips, changing sizes and positions. We were impressed by the diversity of characters generated by the users with only a limited amount of variants available. We intended to add more variants, and after some playtest feedback, realised that we might need a more intuitive user interface (some buttons look like titles).

Once the user is satisfied with their creation, we implemented a gallery to visualize other characters for inspiration. The intention was to create a private gallery for the user's characters, and a public gallery where the user can share their creations in an environment similar to the [Final Fantasy XIV Eorzea Collection](https://ffxiv.eorzeacollection.com/). From there, we would like the user to be able to download their character to use it in external digital environments. To make the platform community-driven and to foster collaboration, we also plan on integrating a blender template the user can download to create their model with more liberties and possibilities, before importing it to our web character creator. 

We still intend to keep the focus of the project on the process, experimentation and discovery, that's why most of this semester's work was done to implement the character creator.


 - Detailed descriptions and analysis for how the _realized_ project implements or not implements the _intended_ idea and concept. Be descriptive and provide examples for your claims.

## Screenshots

(with description)



## Playtest feedback:

"This came out great! The site runs very smoothly, especially considering all the 3D model manipulation. I didn’t see any lagging or stuttering when people were making changes. I love the abstraction of the characters, keeping demographic traits out of the model is great both practically and narratively. I would suggest some tweaks to the quiz UI to make it feel a bit more in line with the aesthetics of the rest of the site. Really great job!!" _ Jennifer Brown

"Very cool litte character creator! quiz was a lot of fun and was honestly surprised at how the sliders interacted with the models, managed to stay as intuitive as most character creators are yet still throw you off with some inventive character manipulation." _ Thomas Rompré

"So cool!! I love how you can create and customize your own character and that every character that you create is different than the other. The UI is super simple to understand. I also like the little quiz there was in the beginning where we could abstractly see the result. It feels like the beginning of a game where you're character built can be part of a community based-game."_ Mariam Aoune 

"Super duper nice project! The quiz was funny and I really enjoyed fiddling with all the body options to create our character! It would maybe be nice to see which answer affected what in the appearance exactly! Adding some more color options for each part of the body would be cool too!"_ Maloney Khim

"Such a cool project, the questions on the quiz were super fun to answer😄
The 3D models were super well done, it was super smooth to make the modifications.
Hopefully, I'll be able to see the final result when everything is linked! Great job guys" _  Hannah Kim